<h2>How to join YouthMappers</h2>

**INTERESTED IN JOINING YOUTHMAPPERS?** Applying to join YouthMappers is free and offers the chance to network with others around the world and exchange information, ideas, and results. University students and their advisors will have access to model syllabi, teaching and learning resources to develop and improve open mapping inside and outside of the classroom. Participating student researchers will benefit from the development and exchange of spatial analytical methods that lead to greater understanding of resilience.

**Step 1 – ORGANIZE** There are two options to create a chapter (a) affiliate an existing org or (b) create a new one. a) If you are an existing student organization on a university or college campus, skip to Step 2. b) If you are creating a brand new student chapter at your university, meet with a faculty member in your department or at your university or college who would be interested in serving as your chapter’s faculty advisor. Then, reach out to students at your university or college and see if they are interested in co- creating a YouthMappers chapter with you on campus. Chapter applications should be submitted by at least one student and one, committed faculty member who will serve at the chapter’s faculty advisor. 

**Step 2 – REVIEW APPLICATION GUIDELINES** www.youthmappers.org/participate Visit the YouthMappers PARTICIPATE page and review our Terms of Participation, Ethics Statement, and Branding Policy to better understand the program. We accept applications from not for-profit institutions of higher education and one application per campus. Check the Chapter Map to see if your university or college already has a YouthMappers chapter. 

**Step 3 – APPLY** Submit your online application to join or affiliate your chapter or organization. YouthMappers supports student leadership and we encourage students to submit applications. After submitting the application, remember to email supporting documents ( chapter bylaws/constitution, proof of university affiliation, chapter logo, and group photograph). If you are still waiting for university approval, you may submit your application and provide the proof of university affiliation once you receive it. 

**Step 4 – APPLICATION REVIEW** The YouthMappers Steering Committee reviews applications every 45 days. Check your e-mail often as you may be contacted with additional questions on your application and/or if any supporting documents are missing from your original submission. 

**Step 5 – NOTIFICATION** If your application to join/affiliate is approved, you will receive a welcome e-mail from the YouthMappers program director and managing director. Your chapter information will be added to the YouthMappers Chapter Map and you will receive an official certificate of affiliation. 
